And the last video we created our room into which the user will go inside.
Once he enters the portal in this video we're going to create the illusion that the user is going inside
a whole new world.
First off we must place our room on a horizontal surface now placing an object on a horizontal surface
that sounds like something we did for the Ikea OP.
In fact that was a huge portion of our Ikea hit testing.
The idea was that whenever the user top on the horizontal surface the object would appear on that surface.
So before going into your next challenge let me just declare a type gesture recognizer top gesture recognizer
is equal to UI type gesture recognizer with Target self and the action function to be triggered will
be handled top.
So phunk handle top with arguments center of type UI type gesture recognizer and no return value back
to your action right selector Hendel tap
and make sure to expose handle top to Objective C for this to work.
And finally just write yourself a scene view don't add gesture recognizer top gesture recognizer.
So every time you tap the scene view this will get triggered.
Now here's your challenge.
This is something you've done before inside of the handle top function.
Do a hit test.
If the user clicks on a horizontal surface a print tapped on a horizontal surface.
Otherwise it should print top nothing.
Pause the video and give this one a try.
So first off declare the scene view that the user tapped on by card letting scene view is equal to is
equal to sender view as far as s see and view.
Now check worthy user top on the scene view by reading light touch.
And I seem to have forgotten to put my else return across.
So after declaring the scene that you tap Tallin let.
Touch location is equal to sender that location inside of the seam that you touched.
So now do a test that checks if the touch location the top location matches that of a horizontal surface.
By writing a hit test result is equal to seen view.
Hit test touch location types dot existing plane using extent this chucks.
If the location that you touched in the scene view matches the location of a plane a horizontal surface.
If the touch location doesn't match the location of an existing plane then this test array will have
one element of results.
That element being the result of what you touched so if hit test result is not empty.
Make sure to add the exclamation mark to reverse the boolean check such that if it does result is not
empty.
So if we do have results then we're going to add our where otherwise else and we don't really need this
statement.
I'll just leave it as a reference.
So if there are results if we indeed touched a horizontal surface we need to load our scene exactly
where that surface was detected.
So make a function func add portal with argument.
Hit test result of type a.r.
Hit test result
and pass your test results right here by writing self portal test result.
So if the results array is not empty if we did indeed touch a plane we're going to add the portal to
that plane to add the portal first.
The portal seen by writing let portal seen.
I seem to have an error and the air is that after I passed the element of results that we got from our
head test.
And we should be good to go from here.
Now if you're confused about head tests in any way make sure to revisit the Ikea section.
We went over them in great depth anyway.
If we do indeed detect a plane let portal's seen is equal to see and seen and the name of the scene
is simply the following portal.
CN but there is one thing we forgot to do is the scene must be in a folder and as and assets folder
for us to be able to load it.
We explain that in the top the jellyfish section anyway.
I add a new file to our project and try to find the CN assets folder which would just be the acid catalog
and call this portal so this is our portal door.
I see an assets not X-C assets.
Change the name of that and drag your portal.
For some reason it crashed on me
what we should be get to go right now drag your portal dot scene into your portal dot se and assets
and back into your view controller.
Right.
Let portal scene is equal to ICN scene.
Named to access our scene.
First go to your portal dot CN asset folder slash our portal dot seen such copy and paste this portal.
I see it now that we loaded our scene.
We need to load the node that's inside of the scene and the portal is an immediate child of the scenes
root node.
So back to our view controller right left the portal node is equal to Portal seen a root node child
node with that name the name of our node is I think just portal's.
So just copy and paste that into your name and recursively will be false since the portal is an immediate
child of the scene views the root node.
Now that we loaded our node we need to place the know to right on top of the plane that we detected.
How do we know where that plane is located while it's in our test results.
So right let's transform is equal to hit test result that world transformed.
This test contains a transform matrix world transform which encodes the position of the planar.
Now right let plain exposition.
So the exposition of our surface the positions are all encoded in the third position of the transforms.
So right transform the three.
So the third column that X left plane y position is equal to transform dot 3 dot Y and let plane Zad
position is equal to transform three dots on.
And I seem to have made an error.
It should be transformed.
Columns 3.
So do that for every single one.
And where should we get to go anyway.
Position the portal exactly where the plane is located by writing portal node.
That position is equal to A C and a vector of.
The exposition will be the position of the surface that we detected at the horizontal position.
The same thing for the vertical and these that position.
Finally just add our known to the scene view by writing self does scene view the scene root node and
child node portal node and make sure to unwrap it.
Since I am sure that the node is named portal run the app
wait till the world origin loads once your world origin loads trying to attack the horizontal surface
right here.
No tap on that surface.
And there is our room.
This is pretty cool.
Right here inside of this room we're going to display our virtual world.
So if I go to Google right here on Google Chrome and I type Kuban up right onto Google images these
are all images that if you cut them up into pieces six pieces one two three four five and six they will
cover the dimensions of a cubic room.
The Cube map that I used for my portal is this one.
So if you were to print this picture and cut off all the white and fold this cube up it would form a
perfect cube which is essentially what our room is.
It's a cube.
So once you find the cube map you want to use.
We're going to use this one after we finished our portal app you should try and use other cube maps
to fit the dimensions of your room like this one is really cool.
Or that one to do all that.
Once you download your cube map whichever one you choose you would put it into Photoshop or sketch and
cut it into pieces.
Then you would resize those pieces such that they fit the dimensions of your room.
Now this is not a photoshop or sketch course so I already did all that for you using this cube map.
It's in your resources folder.
So make sure to access it once you download your folder.
Make sure to open it up and I'm going to drag all of these image folders right under the CN assets folder
in our ex-coach project.
So just drag them all right on to here.
And there you go.
Now how did I know that this image would represent the top the ceiling and this would be the image that
occurs on the side.
Well if you're not a very visual person here's what you do.
Print this into an actual piece of paper cut off the white and fold this into a cube.
Now rotate your cube such that your sky is on top.
Which makes sense since the sky should be on top and your patch of grass right here is on the bottom.
Then according to the cube that you folded you can then label which part of the cube is on the side.
Which part of the cube is in the back etc..
And once you've identified which part of your cube map will form the ceiling which part will form the
bottom etc..
Then you can go into Photoshop.
Start cutting them up etc..
So first off I want to start with the ceiling and the floor.
We're going to add these images to our floor and ceiling.
So back to your view controller make a function called IDE plane phunk plane with argument node name
of type String portal node of type.
I see a node and image name
of type string.
Call this function inside of portal by writing self dot plane and the first note that we want to add
an image to is our roof.
So go to your portal dot seen to know the name of our node that is a roof and the name is simply your
roof.
So copy and paste that right here.
The portal node itself is simply the portal node.
Unwrap it actually would I unwrap it right here and simply write portal node in the image name we're
going to give the roof.
Is this one right here.
So top is the name of our image.
Now to give this function some logic and I still have an air port on Node is still an optional.
So make sure to forcefully unwrap this as well let's remove these as well since it's not an optional
anymore and we should be good to go.
OK.
Now we want to give the floor its image so right self don't add plane the node name of our floor.
I'm not too sure what it is solemnised go back to my sig file and the name is simply plain.
But let me just make sure that this is the floor that I'm pointing at play play back to our perspective
and it is indeed the floor.
Let me Arrhenius the floor.
Copy and paste this name right into my no name.
The portal node is the portal node itself in the image name of our floor will be bottom.
This one right here.
This patch of grass OK.
Now let's give this function some logic inside.
Let child so the child of the portal whether it's the roof or the floor is equal to Portal node child
node with name no name whether it's the name of the roof or the floor.
And what should recursively be true or false.
While the floor and the roof if you go into your portal scene there are not immediate children of the
portal their immediate children of the red carpet.
So place recursively as true since we wanted to check the entire subtree of the portal node in order
to identify the roof or the floor.
Once you load either the roof or the floor which ever one of these is getting triggered.
Set its image to be its respective image name by writing child geometry.
The first material diffuse dark contents is equal to you eye an inch named.
I'm not sure where it is right here and now accessed the images by first going into the folder portal.
Don't see any assets.
Since our images are inside the folder and from there put in your image name whether it's top or bottom.
Punji
and we're done with the roof and the floor should now be given their respective images.
Run the up.
Wait till the world origin loads.
Start detecting a horizontal surface and there is a portal.
Walk into your portal
there is our sky in our grassland.
Now we need to fill these walls.
So back into your view controller copy and paste this function and instead of it being called a plane
call it a waltz.
Since we're going to give the walls their respective images and inside of portal Let's start adding
the images for the walls so self taught was the first node name were going to change is I guess the
back wall.
So get the name of the back wall which is just back wall itself.
Copy and paste the node name the portal notice simply the portal node itself the image name we're going
to give for the back wall is back up Yunji.
So put back
now I should change one of the sidewalls so self don't add walls the no names of the side wall.
I'm not too sure what they are.
So let me just go to my scene and side wall a for example is what we should change the portal node is
simply the portal node the image name for side wall.
I chose to be side of this image right here.
Now for a side wall b is just going to have the image name side B.
And finally to change the images of either side doors.
Let's just see what they're named in our seen file.
So a side door and side door beat.
And we just copy side door a first.
So self-taught walls side door a portal node itself.
And the image name is just side
and now do the same thing for side door B simply change it to be here and here and before running the
app this should be side door a North Side.
This should be side door B.
Ok so now we've successfully filled every single part of our room with a cube map image.
We're finally done.
So run the app.
Wait till your world origin loads.
Once the world origin loads try and detect a horizontal surface der's one right here.
Press on it and the portal pops up.
Now let's go inside the portal
and it's like I'm inside of a new world.
Notice how all of the images blend so well.
There are many different kinds of worlds that you can create with the portal you could create the illusion
that the user is going inside of a new city or something.
You would have to make the room a lot bigger.
And make or find a cube map which embodies the background of a city.
There are a lot of possibilities with this.
Even with the portal we have right now you could have made the room a lot bigger which would have better
represented this world in the sky.
But for now I'm going to leave the dimensions the same since they're easier to work with.
You can resize it any way you want.
After we're done with the app finally we need to create the illusion that the user is going inside of
a portal not a room.
So we need to make these walls invisible from the outside.
We'll do that in the next video.